# Question Standards

A question within AutoEd is referred to by an ID (AKA qid) and is composed of three pieces of information:

- The Question Data, which is used to populate the question template with information unique to this specific question/qid.
- The Question Template, which renders the question to the Student Frontend.
- The Question Auto-Marking Code, which automatically marks a student's submitted answer.

When creating a question for use with AutoEd the following standards for each piece of data must be adhered to.

## Question Data Standards

Question data must be a JSON object. The contents of the Question Data must be readable by the question template when passed to the Question Template's `acceptData` function.

## Question Template Standards

A Question Template must take the form of a string containing HTML elements. The HTML elements should consist of the HTML necessary to render the Question Template, inlined CSS for styling the template, and JavaScript for functionality.

### Rendering Question Data

JavaScript within the template must define an `acceptData` function. This function will be passed Question Data (JSON) and should serve as the main starting point for rendering data-specific components of the Question Template.

### Submitting Answers

When a user indicates they are ready to submit their answer (either through a button press or another method), the JavaScript in the Question Template must call the `submitAnswer` function and pass answer data, in the form of JSON, to it. The `submitAnswer` function exists in the Student Frontend JavaScript and serves as the method by which JSON answer data is submitted to the API.

The Question Template's JavaScript **must not** implement `submitAnswer`.

## Question Auto-Marking Standards

A question's auto-marking code must consist of Python 3 code which implements a `mark_answer` function. The Backend API will attempt to call the `mark_answer` function when an answer is submitted. A student's answer data will be passed to the function.

The implemented `mark_answer` function must return a dictionary containing values according to the table below (dictionary keys are case sensitive):

| Dictionary Key | Expected Value |
| - | - |
| `mark` | A numeric value pertaining to the student's mark on the question |
| `total` | A numeric value pertaining to the total number of marks the question is out of. |
| `feedback` | A string containing any feedback (for the student or instructor) generated by the auto-marking code |

## Question Creator Responsibilities

AutoEd will attempt to check for existence of `submitAnswer` in the Question Template and `mark_answer` in the auto-marking code. It is up to the question creator, however, to ensure that all question data, answer data, and related code is bug-free and appropriately hardened. For example, AutoEd cannot/will not check if question data will appropriately render in the question template. Please ensure that all entered data pertaining to the above sections is compatible.
